fix(docs): More emphasis about Landscape FQDN (#1311)
canonical/ubuntu-pro-for-wsl: docs/howto/set-up-landscape-client.md

Choose your preferred configuration option and enter the required details.

The "Manual configuration" is easier if the server was configured with the

> default options, only the "Landscape FQDN" field is trully required.

Author: Also,. I'd rather keep the `The "Manual configuration" ` part because it matches the radio button shown in the UI.

> default options, only the "Landscape FQDN" field is trully required.

Reviewer: OK.

The change about the Manual configuration reflects the principle that we should let the UI speak for itself; however, I won't fight you on it and when things are sufficiently complex it's sometimes OK to do this.

Added phrase seems good.

> Importantly, that field cannot have a complete URL, but rather the server's
> fully qualified domain name only. For user's commodity the field accepts
> a URL like `https://landscape-server.domain.com` but the `https://` part is
> removed from the address, resulting in the FQDN only. That's for allowing
> users to copy and paste the server address from a web browser address bar, for
> example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field does not accept a complete URL for the server, and an
FQDN should always be used.  The field accepts
URLs like `https://landscape-server.domain.com` but the `https://` part is
removed from the address, resulting in the FQDN only. This is for user convenience,
as it allows you to copy and paste server addresses from a web browser address bar, for
example.
```

One point of clarification here, because I got a little confused:

When you say "complete URL", you are not referring to `https://landscape-server.domain.com` but instead something like `https://landscape-server.domain.com/something/else/`, or `https://landscape-server.domain.com:<PORT>`, right?

I could imagine a reader here thinking that "complete URL" is the one with the `https://` prefix, but then that is clearly allowed, as you explain, because it gets stripped. So I assume that's not what you mean by "cannot have a complete URL".

So, are we talking about three cases: FQDN (expected), FQDN with https (handled), and complete URL (?), or just the first two? I'm not sure what the intended meaning of complete URL is, because --- in a sense --- `https://landscape-server.domain.com` is *complete* and it does get handled.

Author: Let's see if my proposed changes make this clearer. I wish this field was named something else other than `url`. I brought this conceptual question to the Landscape team. We might end up renaming it eventually.

Reviewer: Got it. It's out of our hands to an extent.

> More complex URLs will be rejected and an error message will be shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More complex URLs will be rejected and an error message will be shown.
```

Meaning of "more complex" is a little ambiguous but perhaps the possibility space is too wide to specify further?

Author: "Richer URLs with paths, queries and fragments" is more precise.

The "Advanced configuration" option requires you to specify a `landscape.conf`.
Refer to the section on [Landscape client configuration](howto::config-landscape-client) for an example.

> When you continue a status screen will appear confirming that configuration is complete:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you continue, a status screen will appear confirming that configuration is complete:
```

Some of the content in this page, like this, should arguably be self-evident for someone navigating the UX, but that's something to consider at a future time.

![Configuration is complete](../assets/status-complete.png)

The application waits a fraction of second to confirm that the configuration
data supplied resulted in a successful connection to the Landscape server. In

> case of errors a dialog presents the error details and lets you decide to edit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case of errors, a dialog presents the error details and lets you decide to edit
```

> case of errors a dialog presents the error details and lets you decide to edit
> the configuration and try again or simply proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
case of errors, a dialog presents the error details and lets you decide whether to edit
the configuration and try again, or proceed with the configuration.
```

Choose your preferred configuration option and enter the required details.

The "Manual configuration" is easier if the server was configured with the

> default options (you should double check with system administrator on that), for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default options (if in doubt, check this with your system administrator), in
```

which case only the "Landscape FQDN" field is truly required. This field does
not accept a complete URL for the server (with paths and queries, for example),
and a FQDN should always be used. The field accepts URLs like

> `https://landscape-server.domain.com` (with just scheme and host name) but the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`https://landscape-server.domain.com` (with just a scheme and a host name) but the
```

`https://` part (the scheme) is removed from the address, resulting in the FQDN

> only. This is for user convenience, as it allows you to copy and paste server
> addresses from a web browser address bar, for example. Richer URLs with queries,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only. This is for user convenience, as it allows you to copy an address for a server from
a web browser address bar, for example, and paste it into the field. Richer URLs with queries,
```

> paths and fragments will rejected and an error message will be shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paths and fragments will be rejected and an error message will be shown.
```

```

```{warning}

> The `url` field in the `[host]` section cannot be a true URL, but rather a fully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `url` field in the `[host]` section cannot be a true URL, but rather a fully
```

We've talked about "complete URLs", "more complex URLs", and now "true URLs".
We should try to be consistent with the language used to avoid confusion.

Unless I'm the one overcomplicating things :sweat_smile: , it's probably easiest and most clear to affirm what is required (an FQDN, or FQDN with port) rather than what is not accepted (a complex/true/complete URL).

Author: Yeah, it's been confusing so far, but here we can be more precise: in the configuration manually crafted by the user (the `.conf` file) `[host].url` is not an URL at all, it's `FQDN:PORT`. The name is quite misleading.

If you write a string like `landscape.server.com:6554` into any URL parsing library I'm aware of it will parse it as an URL object with `scheme=landscape.server.com; path=6554`

This example is with Dart but I saw the same behaviour in Python, Go and C++, for example

<img width="1385" height="349" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d5a9c5d-4bdd-4180-9373-274d8b2cdf6a" />

So we need to emphasize it here that it's just `FQDN:PORT`, not a URL in my understanding. I've seen a customer used to Landscape write a URL in that field, like `https://landscape-etc.whatever.com`. That won't work. That's why I'd like to emphasize to not write a URL in there, despite the field name. :(

qualified domain name (or IP address if your server was configured in that way)

> suffixed by a port (6554 by default) separated by a colon (`:`),

Reviewer: Just to be clear, is the port only required when going through the registry or the advanced config, but not through the manual config?

Author: That's right. In those cases the user is writing the configuration by hand. In the "manual config" case the UI does it for the user, so it applies the default port.

Reviewer: Great.
